=== Commanding your troops ===

Most honoured general,

I have hand-picked a select group of your finest warriors from
your homeland with which to fight alongside you in this, your
hour of need.  If you find you are in a bad position or the
troops inadequately provided for when you first arrive at the
battle, you can depart, and I will endeavour to supply you with
better forces.

In general, the troops you command will follow you and fight
intelligently when you are nearby.  Archers and spell casters
will stand off of targets and bombard them with spells and
arrows.  However, archers and spell casters will take a guide
from your current position, and move towards that position if
they are too close to the target.  This may mean they foolishly
follow you into battle.  Target a grid to hold, as I outline
below, in order to avoid this.

Your troops will take also take lead from targets that you
specify, as follows:

If you specify a monster target, your troops will move towards
that monster if they are not engaged in direct combat.  Archers
and spell-casters will keep a distance from the target.

If you specify a race of monsters, using the 's' key while
targetting, your troops will preferentially target that race
against all others, ignoring other targets and direct combat
if they can see one of the race you specify.

If you specify a grid target, your troops will move towards
that position and hold it if they are not engaged in direct
combat.  Archers and spell-casters will also move up to the
position: you can use this to specify your archers and spell
casters stay back while you engage in melee with the enemy.

You can also specify a grid position with the 'a' key, whilst
targetting. This will cause your troops to assault the target
grid.  Troops in an assault will disregard nearby combat in
favour of attacking monsters near the grid that you are
assaulting.  Archers and spell casters will also seek out
targets near the grid that you are assaulting, but will
prefer to move back towards your position if they are too
close to the target in question.

Once you have specified a grid target, either to hold or
assault it, your troops will continue to prefer that
location. To cancel the orders, you must either specify
another target, or hit the Escape key whilst targetting.  At
that point they will begin to follow you again.

As always,

E.
