=== A crocheted woollen bookmark inserted in your first spell book ===

This incongrous object appears poorly made until you notice the warp and
weft of the weave corresponds to the dashes and dots of the Wizard Code.
It is slow work translating the hidden message:

The noblest responsibility of a wizard is to care for and guide those
around him, much like a shepherd cares for his flock but if you lie
amongst the lambs too long, you will get fleas, just as we are all fleas
on the back of Arda, except those who are like a wolf in sheep's clothing
which is the mother of necessity to the hunter who seeks his prey...

Hmm... that doesn't make much sense and the translation work is giving
you a headache. Luckily you managed to stay awake enough during wizard
school to make some notes:

- Detect Monsters will find all monsters around you, except those which
are invisible to normal sight.

- Magic Missile will be your main magical attack.

- Which combined with Phase Door will allow you to stay away from targets
and pepper them with damage from a distance.

- Light Area lights up everything within line of sight of a certain
radius around you. It will also magically light up rooms, except those
which have been affected by certain gloomy magics.

- Wizard Lock will allow you to magically lock doors so that they are
much harder to open. This can help you escape monsters, even slowing
those which can open or bash doors, if there is a door between you and
them.

- Torch is your alternative magical attack: it does higher damage but
with a limited range and will be ineffective against monsters which
are immune to fire damage. You can also use Torch to start fires, or
burn through some locked doors.

- Mend Light Wounds isn't effective against healing potions but should
keep you alive long enough to survive most minor cuts and poisons.

- Stinking Cloud is an effective damage over time attack that is
especially useful against breeding monsters as all poison affecting
the parent will be passed on to their spawn. Be careful not to use it up
close or you will poison yourself.

- Confused monsters will be highly inaccurate with their ranged
attacks which may cause them to accidentally hit those around them.

Good luck!

(Thing seemed a lot easier on graduation day).
