=== A carefully folded letter, sealed with an impressive signet 'S' ===

When you break the seal, some of the blood red wax drips out, as if it
had never set. The hand writing inside is stern and angular:

As a master, your summoned creatures you command will follow you and
fight intelligently when you are nearby.  Archers and spell casters
will stand off of targets and bombard them with spells and arrows.
However, archers and spell casters will take a guide from your
current position, and move towards that position if they are too
close to the target.  This may mean they foolishly follow you into
battle.  Target a grid to hold, as I outline below, in order to
avoid this.

Your summons will take also take lead from targets that you specify,
as follows:

If you specify a monster target, your summons will move towards that
monster if they are not engaged in direct combat.  Archers and spell-
casters will keep a distance from the target.

If you specify a race of monsters, using the 's' key while targetting,
your summons will preferentially target that race against all others,
ignoring other targets and direct combat if they can see one of the
race you specify.

If you specify a grid target, your summons will move towards that
position and hold it if they are not engaged in direct combat.
Archers and spell-casters will also move up to the position: you can
use this to specify your archers and spell casters stay back while
you engage in melee with the enemy.

You can also specify a grid position with the 'a' key, whilst
targetting. This will cause your summons to assault the target grid.
Summons in an assault will disregard nearby combat in favour of
attacking monsters near the grid that you are assaulting.  Archers
and spell casters will also seek out targets near the grid that you
are assaulting, but will prefer to move back towards your position
if they are too close to the target in question.

Once you have specified a grid target, either to hold or assault it,
your troops will continue to prefer that location. To cancel the
orders, you must either specify another target, or hit the Escape
key whilst targetting.  At that point they will begin to follow you again.

Beware: You must keep your summons alive or you will incur a mana
debt if they are killed or destroyed. Make sure that you have the
mana available to pay this debt, or the price will be extracted in
blood instead.

                                               -- S.
