=== A leaf which arrived perspicuously ===

This leaf blew past you, spun elegantly in the air in front of you and landed
neatly on your open palm. You immediately noticed it was covered in impossibly
fine writing:

I do not agree with the path you are following, but it appears I will not be
able to dissuade you from it.  Since you have chosen to bend nature to your
beck and call, the least I can do is advise you on the care and feeding of
your familiar. Be warned: this is a gift from nature and you should not
abuse it. You will only receive one familiar this life time, so choose wisely
and protect it ahead of yourself.

Your familiar may initially appear to be a small and hapless animal - more
agile than most, able to move quickly around the dungeon and evade many
attacks. It can be summoned when it leaves by recasting the Find Familiar
spell, and if nearby casting this spell again will locate the familiar for you.
It has a measure of innate toughness that exceeds its apparent size, but will
die if left unprotected in a dangerous situation.

Each type of animal or insect has some innate abilities that will assist you.
There are 3 basic types of familiars to start with: those immediately able
to attack your enemies, those which are better suited for sniffing out and
spying on them, and those which can pick up and carry useful objects for you
around the dungeon.

As you gain in power, you will be able to choose an additional ability for
your familiar every few levels that will increase it's power. I have made
notes on some of these choices for you here:

Increase range of senses: This increases the distance at which you will
learn about monsters that the familiar is aware of.

Dig through dirt and rubble: This allows the familiar to make small tunnels
and hide in earth and rubble - providing additional protection for itself.
It does not allow the familiar to make large enough a tunnel for you to
pass.

Take items from the ground: This will encourage your familiar to seek out
items and collect them for you. The familiar will prefer more valuable items
to lesser ones, and at deeper levels in the dungeon will choose to go after
only the most valuable items.

Track enemies by scent: Normally a familiar will be able to spy on monsters
which are in its line of sight. This grants the familiar a powerful sense
of smell which makes it chase monsters out of line of sight, to either spy
on or attack them as it chooses.

Communicate with you silently: This provides a telepathic bond between you
and the familiar, so that it can report back to you what monsters it sees
even if it is not in hearing range. Because objects are less important
to creatures of the natural world, you will not learn about these.

At higher levels, your familiar will gain powerful physical and magical
attacks, depending on the choices you make, becoming a useful and trust-
worthy ally. Be sure to pay it back with kindness and respect.

                                             - Radagast the Brown
