=== Advice to the Student of the Open Hand ===

"Empty your mind, be formless. Shapeless, like water. If you put
water into a cup, it becomes the cup. You put water into a bottle
and it becomes the bottle. You put it in a teapot, it becomes the
teapot. Now, water can flow or it can crash. Be water my friend."

To take full advantage of the skills I have taught you, you must
neither carry a weapon in either hand, not impede your movements by
carrying a shield.  Although you can wear gloves and boots, after a
while you will see that these are just a crutch for the true martial
artist who can strike with fists of stone and break with feet of
wood and clay.

Should an opponent give you an opening, do not hesitate to exploit
it.  An opponent who lets you move towards him, and does not step
aside, you will be able to flying kick - a powerful move that focuses
your power to maximise damage.  In close melee, you should attack
with both hands and feet.  Alternate your blows, with hands striking
the upper body, and feet kicking the lower body, to confuse your
opponent and pass more easily through his defenses.

Beware opponents that can damage you through touch alone.  You must
get closer to the target than when using a weapon, and this will mean
you will contact these enemies and get damaged in turn.  Also beware
opponents who are partially or completely permeable.  Your fists will
pass through these creatures without much damage.  Consider carrying
a weapon for these encounters - something with a sharp edge will
allow you to counter both these types of opponents.

You will be able to take advantage of various magics that empower
you with natural weapons, either through extensions of your own body
or by shape-shifting yourself into a different form.  Keep an eye
out for these abilities: they usually complement your existing skills.

Beyond that advice, remember, it is always better to run away and
fight another day.  No shame will come of it to either you, myself
or our order.  Whereas an early grave will lead to my regret at the
loss of another impetuous and talent youth to the tears of Morgoth.

                             - As always, your friend and master.
