=== Monsters ===

The surface and depths of Angband are populated with a variety of
hostile denizens. Monsters are represented by the letters 'a'
through 'z' and capital letters 'A' through 'Z'. In addition,
mushroom patches, represented by ',', creeping coins, represented
by '$' and trees, represented by ':' can be encountered. Rumor
has it that the objects in the dungeon at deeper levels can
sometimes be hostile.

Most monsters will move around the dungeon, which is the first
indication of their presence. You may hear them before you see
them, when they bash down a door ('You hear a door burst open.'),
cast a teleportation spell ('It blinks away.'), are injured
by traps and magic spells ('It cries out in pain.') or when it
summons monsters ('You hear distant chanting.'). If a monster
alters a feature you have already learnt about, you will see
the feature change to an unknown location (' '). Some monsters
will leave trails of slime or (if injured) blood as they move,
and monsters moving through or under some types of terrain will
leave a trail.

Monsters can attack you by moving into you. Monsters can also
cast a variety of spells, to hurt or hinder you, protect or
heal themselves or summon allies. The danger of attacks and
spells increases greatly lower than depth 30 in the dungeon. In
particular, dragons and some other kinds of monsters have
breath weapons that can be instantly fatal to even the most
powerful of characters if they are not forewarned and suitably
protected. You can use detection magics to determine what
monsters are located nearby, but out of sight. If a monster is
visible, but not currently on-screen, there will be the
label (off-screen) next to the monster name whenever it is
displayed. In addition, some monsters can use dungeon terrain
to hide themselves from attacks and spells. If you have
detected one of these monsters, it will have the label
(hidden) next to its name. Even though you know about it, you
will not be able to attack it until it comes out of hiding,
except with particular kinds of destructive or indirect
magic.

=== General Tips ===

Monster name and color can be a very useful indicator of
what powers and danger it represents. If you have not seen
a monster with the character and color of this kind before,
proceed very carefully. You can use 'probing' magic to
determine some additional information about the monster.
In addition, particular colors of monsters across different
species will have the same kind of attacks. If you have had
problems with a monster with a similar name or color before,
you should be cautious around it. Be particularly wary of
moving next to an unknown monster. There are a large number
of different attacks that can cripple or kill you if you
are not suitably protected. Non-moving monsters specialise in
these sorts of attacks, and are often much harder to kill than
an equivelent mobile monster at the same depth.

If a monster has a name or title of some form, then it is more
powerful than its brethren. In particular, unique monsters are
much harder to defeat then other monsters at the same depth.
If you encounter a uniquely named monster, give a lot of thought
towards preparing for the fight, and the possibility of fleeing.
Some unique monsters are accompanied by large escorts of their
fellows: much larger than the equivelent monster groups you
will initially encounter. The unique may also blend in with its
fellows, so if you are inattentive, you may find yourself in
much worse trouble than you expect.

If a monster is slower than you, you can attack it, and then
step back, preventing it from retalliating. By the same token,
you will not be able to successfully flee a monster that is
much faster than you. Try to minimise the number of monsters
adjacent to you, to lower your risk, and against spell casters,
minimise the number of monsters that can actually see you.
Against monsters that summon allies, take this a step further
and try to minimise all space around you, even to the extent
of tunnelling into the walls to create a hidey-hole. Both the
summoner and summoned monsters are not able to call on further
reinforcements for a short while after summoning, so you may
wish to take advantage of this period to eliminate as many
as possible before further help arrives.

Monsters that fly or climb are able to move past each other
with ease, so even restricting the adjacent space available
may not help against these enemies. In addition, they are
able to travel safely over a lot of dangerous terrain that
you cannot, so be sure to fight these creatures away from those
locations. Swimming and digging monsters are similiarly
benefitted by being able to hide in water or earth, preventing
you from attacking them unless they expose themselves. Tunnelling
monsters on the other hand can simply destroy walls by moving
through them, and ghosts and other insubstantial monsters may
pass through the same walls as if they weren't there.
 
=== Monster Memories ===

There are hundreds of different creatures in the world of Unangband, many of
which have the same letter symbol and color on the screen.  The exact species
of a creature can be discovered by looking at it.  It is also very difficult
to keep track of the capabilities of various creatures.  Luckily, Unangband
automatically keeps track of your experiences with a particular creature.
This feature is called the monster memory.  You monster memory recalls the
particular attacks of each creature (whether or not technically a monster)
which you have suffered, as well as recalling if you have observed them to
multiply or move erratically, or drop treasure, etc.  Otherwise you would
simply have to take notes, which is an unnecessary bother.

If you have killed enough of a particular creature, or suffered enough
attacks, recalling the monster memory may also provide you with information
not otherwise available, such as a armor class or hit dice.  These are not
explained, but may be useful to give the relative danger of each creature.
This memory can be passed on to a new character even after you die by means
of a reduced save file.


=== Monster Descriptions ===

Creeping Coins ($)
	These monsters resemble piles of treasure in the dungeon,
	but they move! It is rumored their bodies remain indistinguishable
	from treasure after they are killed.

Mushroom Patch (,)
	These monsters resemble harmless mushrooms, but release spores
	that affect those nearby in a variety of ways. After they are killed
	the individual mushrooms in the patch may be consumed. But most
	mushrooms found this way are poisonous.

Tree (:)
	Great trees grow deep in the earth, magically sustained and often
	aware of their surroundings. They are usually immobile, but hard to
	kill.

Mimic (?=! and maybe others)
	Monsters that resemble common dungeon objects are rumored to exist
	deep in the dungeon. Beware trying to pick one of these up, as it
	will attack you instead!

Giant Ant (a)
	These ants have grown far beyond their normal size, perhaps breed
	by Morgoth or hatched from the eggs of a great queen living deep
	in the earth.

Ancient Dragon (A)
	Ancient Dragons are the eldest and most knowledgeable and dangerous
	of their kind. Their breath is deadly, their spells and attacks occur
	at great speed and they guard powerful treasures. It is rumored that
	they are held sway over by even an even greater kind.

Giant Bat (b)
	Giant Bats congregate in large flocks in the dungeon, looking for
	a tasty morsel on which to feed. There are also hybrids of bat and
	dragonnish blood, which have the breath of their parent dragon.

Bird (B)
	Many birds from the ancient bloodlines have fallen under Morgoth's
	sway, and act as spys and fast moving messengers for him and his
	minions.

Giant Centipede (c)
	These multi-legged predators are quick moving and hungry. There are
	two kinds: centipedes of enormous size, and monstrous crawlers of
	various sorts, with mouths surrounded by paralyzing tentacles.

Canine (C)
	Dogs and wolves have both worked alongside and been the bane of
	mankind. These slavering beasts usually appear in packs, move quickly
	and attack all at once.

Young Dragon (d)
	Baby and young dragons struggle down from hatcheries near the surface
	to feed on the larger prey deeper in the dungeon. Do not dismiss them,
	they are still dangerous to the unprepared and unskilled.

Mature Dragon (D)
	These feared beasts of legend have powerful attacks and a deadly
	breath of some kind. They are also spell casters, when it suits
	them. Their cousins, the drakes, are a more magical offshoot.

Floating Eye (e)
	Magical eyes act as spies, guardians and servants. They are
	powerfully magic, and their gaze can entrap you from across a room.

Elemental (E)
	Magical beings originating from the elemental planes. The naturally
	occuring spirits and the more powerful elementals are made of
	one of the four elements, or a dangerous mix of two. The intelligent
	sorcerors of these planes, the djinn or genies, may also be encountered
	as well as invisible servitors constructed from pure elemental force.

Felines (f)
	Sauron, one of Morgoth's most powerful servants, often appeared in
	the shape of a cat. And the many felines in Angband are testament
	to the quickness and deadliness of such a form.

Fish (F)
	Dangerous fish and marine mammals lurk in the underground waters, silent
	and deadly predators. Only a few, rare magical forms, are encountered
	outside these waters, however.

Golems (g)
	Animated statues of various materials, golems often move slowly
	and can easily be avoided. Their creators have given some golems
	the ability to use a few dangerous spells. Do not fall victim to
	the powerful blows of their stoney limbs.

Ghosts (G)
	Insubstantial spirits of the damned wandering the dungeon, ghosts come
	in three varieties: various noisesome spirits, who are invisible,
	and insubstantial but whose presence is betrayed by the sound of their
	voice, disturbed souls, who are invisible and insubstantial, and whose
	touch reflects their fate in life, and various apparitions, who are
	visible and insubstantial, and whose terrifying appearance often spells
	a quite fate at hand.

Hobbits, Dwarfs and Gnomes (h)
	These three races have no great inclination to good or evil, and many
	have fallen into the pay, or worse, of darker powers. Many different
	professions of these races may be encountered, but their natural
	tendencies will predominate.

Hybrids (H)
	Mixes of mammal, bird and reptile, hybrids include the dangerous
	mythological beasts of legend, and cross-bred horrors in which
	so many beasts are intermingled, they become indistinguishable masses
	of claws, fangs, and flesh.

Icky-things (i)
	Small, semi-intelligent slimy creatures, these may be under-estimated
	in their abilities, especially in never-before encountered varieties.

Insects (I)
	Giant insects and insect swarms threaten you with their painful stings
	and bites. Be particularly wary of lice and other fast-breeding pests,
	with can be individually defeated very easily, but which quickly 
	fill the dungeon with their swarms, and dragonflies, which use 
	the breath of dragons against you.


XXX To be completed.
