=== Classes ===
 
          Once a race has been chosen, you will need to pick a class.  For
          the first few games it  is  suggested that you choose Istari, to
          allow you to enjoy all aspects of the game without restriction
          until you know which skills you enjoy using the most.
 
***** <Warrior>
          Warrior
               A Warrior is a hack-and-slash character, who solves most  of
               his  problems  by cutting them to pieces, but will occasion-
               ally fall back  on the help of a magical device. A Warrior
               will be good at  Fighting and Throwing/Bows, but bad at most
               other skills.  Because they rely on melee weapons so much,
               a Warrior needs to keep alert for monsters that are resist-
               ant or immune to edged or blunt weapons - to compensate it's
               probably worth carrying a backup weapon of the other type.

***** <Mage>
          Mage
               A Mage must live by his wits.  He cannot hope to simply hack
               his  way  through the dungeon, and so must therefore use his
               magic to defeat,  deceive, confuse, and escape.  A Mage is
               heavily reliant on his magic books, from which he can learn
               a vast range of spells as he desires, but these do weigh
               down his often slender frame.  Sometimes it may be worth a
               Mage looking at a song book, to see if there are secrets
               that can be gleened from within and various magical circles
               within the dungeon can also be studied for useful research
               notes.
               A mage's Intelligence determines the number of spells that
               they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that a mage may
               safely use and Dexterity determines the failure rate of their
               magical spells.  Because a mage requires good dexterity for
               casting their intricate spells, they will be penalised for
               wearing gloves or impeding themeselves with too heavy armour.
 
***** <Priest>
         Priest
               A Priest is a character of holy devotion.  They explore  the
               dungeon  only  to destroy the evil that lurks within, and if
               treasure just happens to fall into  their  packs,  well,  so
               much  more  to  the  glory of their church!  Priests receive
               their spells from a deity, and therefore do not choose which
               spells they will learn from prayer books, but may be able to
               graft their way through song books to learn spells in a
               guaranteed order.  Various altars within the dungeon can be
               studied for divine insight and the revelations recalled
               through prayer beads.
               A priest's Intelligence determines the number of spells that
               they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that a priest may
               safely use and Charisma determines the failure rate of their
               priestly spells.
               While a priest is a fairer fighter than mages, due to their
               experience working the fields and fallows of their temples,
               a priest is expressly forbidden from wielding any melee
               weapon unless it has been first blessed by their god.
               Certain orders of the priesthood have been granted a papal
               exemption for weapons that do not have edges to let blood. 
               
 
***** <Artisan>
         Artisan
               An Artisan is the master of traps and locks, no device being
               impossible for  him  to  overcome, and he puts this to good
               use setting traps around the dungeon for monsters to fall
               foul of.  The Artisan is also superior to all other classes
               for their magical item skills and should rely on them heavily,
               either directly or by in the traps he is renowned for.  An
               Artisan can also learn a few spells from magic books or song
               books, but not the powerful offensive spells that mages can use.
               An Artisan's Intelligence determines the number of spells that
               they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that an artisan may
               safely use and Dexterity determines the failure rate of their
               magical spells.  Because an artisan requires good dexterity
               for casting their intricate spells, they will be penalised
               for wearing gloves or impeding themeselves with too heavy
               armour.
 
***** <Ranger>
         Ranger
               A Ranger is an archer/mage.  He is a good fighter,  and  the
               best  of  the  classes aside from an archer with a missile
               weapon such as a bow.  The ranger learns spells much more
               slowly than a  mage,  and is not capable of as much
               offensive magic as a mage, or even warrior mage, but can
               offset this through clever use of magic to enhance his
               fighting and archery skills, from both magic books and
               song books.
               A ranger's Intelligence determines the number of spells that
               they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that a ranger may
               safely use and Dexterity determines the failure rate of their
               magical spells.  Because a Ranger requires good dexterity
               for casting their intricate spells, they will be penalised
               for wearing gloves or impeding themeselves with too heavy
               armour.
                
***** <Paladin>
          Paladin
               A Paladin is a warrior/priest.  He is a very  good  fighter,
               second  only to the warrior class, but not very good at mis-
               sile weapons.  He receives prayers at a slower pace then the
               priest,  but  can even  receive the most  powerful  prayers.
               Because a paladin is  really  a  dual  class  character,  it
               requires  more  experience  to advance him.  Paladin's receive
               their spells from a deity, and therefore do not choose which
               spells they will learn from prayer books, but may be able to
               graft their way through song books to learn spells in a
               guaranteed order.
               A Paladin's Intelligence determines the number of spells that
               they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that a paladin may
               safely use and Charisma determines the failure rate of their
               paladin spells.  A Paladin has been granted exemption by
               their gods to allow them to fight freely without requiring
               their weapons been blessed.
 
***** <Thief>
          Thief
               A Thief is a stealthy and cunning counterpart to the Warrior
               or Archer.  The thief has the highest stealth of any class,
               and is the only class to have their stealth improve over the
               levels.  He is as good a fighter as an Artisan, but does not
               have the magical item skills or spells that an Artisan may
               use to get out of tight spots. Instead, he must rely on his
               cunning and skill, avoiding tougher monsters and hoping to
               steal the treasure from under their noses or entangle and
               divert them in traps set throughout the dungeon.

***** <Archer>
          Archer
               The archer is to missile weapons, what the warrior is to
               melee. The archer has the highest missile weapon skills of
               any class, and must rely in this skill to scoot and shoot
               to engage enemies, as their melee skills are inadequate
               for hand to hand fighting. Because the archer does not have
               magical abilities, they do not require much experience to
               advance in levels.  An Archer should rely on a variety of
               ammunition in his quiver, supplemented by enchantments and
               coatings where possible to use against different monsters.
               
***** <Shaman>
          Shaman
               The shaman is a multi-class Priest/Mage, capable of casting
               from both prayer and magic books, as well as supplementing
               their magic from song books. Because of their highly
               magical bent, they do not tend to have as many skills as
               either the priest or mage class, and do not tend to get spells
               from either class as quickly, except for elemental attack
               and creature summoning type spells, which they are the equal
               or superior of the other magic-users.
               A Shaman's Intelligence determines the number of spells that
               they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that a Shaman may
               safely use and Dexterity determines the failure rate of their
               shamanic spells.
               The Shaman is a poor fighter and expressly forbidden from
               wielding any melee weapon unless it has been first blessed by
               their god.  Because a Shaman requires good dexterity for
               casting their intricate spells, they will be penalised for
               wearing gloves or impeding themeselves with too heavy armour.

***** <Bard>
          Bard
               The Bard is a special spellcaster, who uses songs and musical
               instruments to cast magical spells. The Bard keeps their
               spells in song books, from where they graft to learn a
               progression of spells, but are capable of reading both Magic
               and Prayer books, but may not find all spells (Even similar
               to their songs) legible in these books. Bards are unique
               in that many of their songs can be continued from round to
               round while they perform other activities.  A Bard's
               Dexterity determines the number of spells that they can
               learn the complex fingerwork to, their Charisma determines
               the mana that a Bard may safely use and their Constitution
               determines the failure rate of their Bardic spells.
               Because a Bard requires good dexterity for casting their
               intricate spells, they will be penalised for wearing gloves
               or impeding themeselves with too heavy armour.
               
***** <Warrior Mage>
          Warrior Mage
               The Warrior Mage is a mix of the warlike and magic-using arts.
               While he is a good fighter, his archery and throwing skills
               suffer through lack of use, as he prefers to use the magical
               arts to attack at range.  The Warrior Mage learns spells more
               more slowly than a  mage, but is not restricted in what spells
               he can learn from Magic Books.
               A Warrior Mage's Intelligence determines the number of spells
               that they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that a ranger
               may safely use and Dexterity determines the failure rate of
               their magical spells.  Because a Warrior Mage requires good
               dexterity for casting their intricate spells, they will be
               penalised for wearing gloves or impeding themeselves with too
               heavy armour.

***** <Istari>
          Istari
               The Istari are fine warriors who can also use the priestly
               and magical arts as well as magical devices and bows.  They
               are intended as an easier class to play in order to learn all
               about Unangband, but a win with an Istari is not considered
               as challenging as a win with any other class.   
               A Istari's Intelligence determines the number of spells
               that they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that a Istari
               may safely use and Dexterity determines the failure rate of
               their magical and priestly spells.  Because of the divine
               mandate of the Istari, they may use weapons freely and are
               not hindered by wearing gloves, although heavy armour can
               penalise their magic.

***** <Rogue>
          Rogue
               A Rogue is a character that prefers to live by his cunning,
               but is capable of fighting his way out of a tight spot.  A
               rogue has a high stealth allowing him to sneak around many
               creatures without having to fight, to rob them blind given
               half a chance, or sneak up and get the first blow - only a
               thief is more stealthy.  A rogue's perception is higher
               than any other class, and many times he will notice a
               trap or secret door before having to search.  A rogue is
               better than warriors or paladins with magical devices, but
               still cannot rely on their performance.  Rogues can also
               learn a few spells, but not the powerful offensive spells
               mages can use.
               An Rogue's Intelligence determines the number of spells that
               they can learn, Wisdom determines the mana that an rogue may
               safely use and Dexterity determines the failure rate of their
               magical spells.  Because a rogue requires good dexterity
               for casting their intricate spells, they will be penalised
               for wearing gloves or impeding themeselves with too heavy
               armour.
               
