=== Command Descriptions ===

        The following command descriptions are listed as the command name
plus the "underlying command" key.  This is followed by the command name
and "roguelike" keyset key, if different from the underlying command key.
Then comes a brief description of the command, including information about
alternative methods of specifying the command in each keyset, when needed.

        Some commands use the "repeat count" to automatically repeat the
command several times, while others use the "repeat count" to specify a
"quantity" for the command, and still others use it as an "argument" of
some kind.  Some commands are auto-repeated several times if no repeat
count is given and the "always_repeat" option is set.

        Most commands take no "energy" to perform, while most other commands
only take energy when they cause the world to change in some way.

        Most command descriptions assume you have all the Save-File options
set to Yes; see the options.txt file to work out what options affect what
commands.
        
--- Inventory Commands ---

Handle an item (h) or Handle an item (%)
        Use this command to choose any item and then choose the permitted
        commands that can be performed with this item.  Each command you
        can choose is described in more detail below.
        If the item is inscribed with a inscription % followed by a letter,
        the 'internal' command for that letter will be the command chosen.
        This usually corresponds to the original key set command, but not
        necessarily.

Inventory list (i)
        Displays a list of objects being carried but not equipped.  You
        can carry up to 23 different items, not counting those in your
        equipment.  Often, many identical objects can be "stacked" into
        a "pile" which will count as a single item.  This is always
        true of things like potions, scrolls, and food, but you may have
        to set options to allow wands, staves, and other such objects to
        stack.  Each object has a weight, and if you carry more objects
        than your strength permits, you will begin to slow down.
 
Equipment list (e)
        Use this command to display a list of the objects currently being
        used by your character.  Your character has 12 slots for equipment,
        each corresponding to a different location on the body, and each of
        which may contain only a single object at a time, and each of which
        may only contain objects of the proper "type", and which include
        WIELD (weapon), BOW (missile launcher), LEFT (ring), RIGHT (ring),
        NECK (amulet), LITE (light source), BODY (armor), OUTER (cloak),
        ARM (shield), HEAD (helmet), HANDS (gloves), FEET (boots).  You
        must be wielding/wearing certain objects to take advantage of
        their special powers.

Drop an item (d)
        This drops an item from your inventory or equipment onto the
        dungeon floor.  If the floor spot you are standing on already has
        an object in it, Angband will attempt to drop the item onto an
        adjacent space.  Be warned that if the floor is full and you
        attempt to drop something, it may disappear and be destroyed.
        Doors and traps are considered objects for the purpose of
        determining if the space is occupied.  This command may take
        a quantity, and takes some energy.

Offer an item (O)
        This gives an item from your inventory to an allied monster
        or allows you to buy, trade or sell items with townsfolk as
        well as monsters in the dungeon.  Whether an unfriendly monster
        is willing to trade with you depends on whether it is injured
        or offended, whether it is smart enough to understand you and
        whether you speak a common language. Monsters near death may
        be more willing to consider terms of trade but only if you are
        offering an item that may heal or otherwise immediately benefit
        them.  This command may take a quantity, and takes some energy.

Steal item or search (s)
        This command can be used to steal items from monsters and to
        locate hidden items, traps and secret doors in the spaces
        adjacent to the player, if no monsters are adjacent to you.
        Stealing is automatically successful against sleeping monsters
        and uses your stealth skill against alert monsters, who will
        be aggravated if they discover your theft attempt.
        When searching, more than a single turn of searching will be
        required in most cases.  You should always search a chest before
        trying to open it, since they are generally trapped.  Searching
        can also spot if water is deep, and identify many other hidden
        terrain features.  This command can take a count, which is useful
        if you are fairly sure of finding something eventually, since
        the command stops as soon as anything is found or if the monster
        detects your attempt to steal an item.  This command may take a
        count, and takes some energy.

Destroy an item (k) or Destroy an item (^D)
        This destroys an item in your inventory or on the dungeon floor.
        If the selected pile contains multiple objects, you may specify
        a quantity.  You must always (currently) verify this command.
        This command may take a quantity, and takes some energy.
        Destroying some items will release whatever is trapped inside.

Wear/Wield equipment (w)
        To wear or wield an object in your inventory, use this command.
        Since only one object can be in each slot at a time, if you wear
        or wield an item into a slot which is already occupied, the old
        item will be first be taken off, and may in fact be dropped if
        there is no room for it in your inventory.  This command takes
        some energy.

Take off equipment (t) or Take off equipment (T)
        Use this command to take off a piece of equipment and return it
        to your inventory.  Occasionally, you will run into a cursed item
        which cannot be removed.  These items normally penalize you in some
        way and cannot be taken off until the curse is removed.  If there
        is no room in your inventory for the item, your pack will overflow
        and you will drop the item after taking it off.  This command takes
        some energy.

--- Movement Commands ---

Walk (with pickup) (;)
        Moves one step in the given direction.  The square you are moving
        into must not be blocked by walls or doors.  You will pick up any
        items in the destination grid if the "always_pickup" option is set,
        or if the "query_pickup" option is set and you respond correctly.
        You may also use the "original" direction keys (both keysets) or
        the "roguelike" direction keys (roguelike keyset) to walk in a
        direction.  This command may take a count, requires a direction,
        and takes some energy.
        If you walk into a hidden monster, you will push over it, as opposed
        to attacking it, as you would an invisible monster.
        If you are moving in water or over slippery or treacherous terrain,
        or carry a large amount of equipment, you may find yourself becoming
        tired, and forced to rest. This is affected by your Constitution: a
        higher Constitution allows you to have to rest less frequently.

Walk (flip pickup) (-)
        This is just like normal move, except that the "Pick things up"
        option is inverted.  In other words, if you normally pick up
        anything you encounter (the default), you will not pick things up
        when using this command.  If you normally do not pick things up,
        you will when using this command.  This command may take a count,
        requires a direction, and takes some energy.
        If you walk into a hidden monster, you will push over it, as opposed
        to attacking it, as you would an invisible monster.
        If you are moving in water or over slippery or treacherous terrain,
        or carry a large amount of equipment, you may find yourself becoming
        tired, and forced to rest. This is affected by your Constitution: a
        higher Constitution allows you to have to rest less frequently.

Run (.) or Run (,)
        This command will move in the given direction, following any bends
        in the corridor, until you either have to make a "choice" between
        two directions or you are disturbed.  You can configure what will
        disturb you by setting the disturbance options.  You may also use
        shift plus the "roguelike" direction keys (roguelike keyset), or
        shift plus the "original" direction keys on the keypad (both keysets,
        some machines) to run in a direction.  This command may take an
        argument, requires a direction, and takes some energy.

Go up staircase (<)
        Climbs up an up staircase you are standing on.  There is always at
        least one staircase going up on every level except for the town
        level (this doesn't mean it's easy to find).  Going up a staircase
        will take you to a new dungeon level unless you are at 50 feet
        (dungeon level 1), in which case you will return to the town
        level.  Note that whenever you leave a level (not the town), 
	you will never find it again.  This means that for all intents 
	and purposes, any objects on that level are destroyed.  
	This, however, does not include artifacts, which are
	preserved and may show up later.  This command takes some energy. 
	If you have a map, or are in campaign mode, you can use the < key to
        travel to an adjacent location while you are on the surface.
        This uses some food and adds to the time, and requires that you
        are Full and near the edge of the wilderness map. You will be
        required to recover from bleeding, stun or poison damage and other
        conditions that impair you.

Go down staircase (>)
        Descends a down staircase you are standing on.  There are always
        at least two staircases going down on each level, except for the
        town which has only one, and "quest" levels, which have none until
        the quest monster is killed.  Going down a staircase will take you
        to a new dungeon level.  See "Go Up Staircase" for more info.
        This command takes some energy.
        You may climb down wells in the dungeon in addition to staircases.

--- Resting Commands ---

Stay still (with pickup) (,) or Stay still (with pickup) (.)
        Stays in the same square for one move.  If you normally pick up
        objects you encounter, you will pick up whatever you are standing
        on.  You may also use the "5" key (both keysets).  This command
        may take a count, and takes some energy.

Stay still (flip pickup) (g)
        Stays in the same square for one move.  If you normally pick up
        objects you encounter, you will not pick up whatever you are
        standing on.  If you normally do not pick up objects, you will
        pick up what you are standing on.  This command is normally only
        used when the "always_pickup" option is false.  This command may
        take a count, and takes some energy.

Rest (R)
        Resting is better for you than repeatedly staying still, and can
        be told to automatically stop after a certain amount of time, or
        when various conditions are met.  In any case, you always wake up
        when anything disturbing happens, or when you press any key.  To
        rest, enter the Rest command, followed by the number of turns you
        want to rest, or "*" to rest until your hitpoints and mana are
        restored, or "&" to rest until you are fully "healed".  This command
        may take an argument (used for the number of turns to rest), and
        takes some energy.

--- Modal Commands ---

Toggle search mode (S) or Toggle search mode (#)
        This command will take you into and out of search mode.  When
        first pressed, the message "Searching" will appear at the bottom
        of the screen.  You are now taking two turns for each command, one
        for the command and one turn to search.  This means that you are
        taking twice the time to move around the dungeon, and therefore
        twice the food.  Search mode will automatically turn off if you
        are disturbed.  You may also turn off search mode by entering the
        Search Mode command again.
        Searching can spot if water is deep, and identify many other hidden
        terrain features.

--- Alter Commands ---

Tunnel (T) or Tunnel (^T)
        Tunnelling or mining is a very useful art.  There are many kinds of
        rock, with varying hardness, including permanent rock (permanent),
        granite (very hard), quartz veins (hard), magma veins (soft), and
        rubble (very soft).  Quartz and Magma veins may be displayed in a
        special way, and may sometimes contain treasure, in which case they
        will be displayed in a different way.  Rubble sometimes covers an
        object.  It is hard to tunnel unless you are wielding a heavy weapon
        or a shovel or a pick.  Tunnelling ability increases with strength
        and weapon weight.  This command may take a count, is affected by
        the "always_repeat" option, requires a direction, and takes some
        energy.
        You can tunnel into some of the new terrain, although ice will cut
        you on its sharp edges.

Open a door or chest (o)
        To open an object such as a door or chest, you must use this
        command.  If the object is locked, you will attempt to pick the
        lock based on your disarming ability.  If you open a trapped chest
        without disarming the traps first, the trap will be set off.  Some
        doors will be jammed shut and may have to be forced open.  You may
        need several tries to open a door or chest.  This command may take
        a count, is affected by the "always_repeat" option, requires a
        direction, and takes some energy.
        Opening can be performed on some types of new terrain, such as
        curtains and cupboards.

Close a door (c)
        Non-intelligent and some other creatures cannot open doors, so
        shutting doors can be quite valuable.  Broken doors cannot be closed.
        Bashing a door open may break it.  This command may take a count,
        is affected by the "always_repeat" option, requires a direction, and 
        takes some energy.
        Closing can now be used on chests to protect items in the same
        location as the chest from being stolen by monsters or damaged by
        magical attacks. Cupboards also provide this benefit. Closing
        previously locked doors will lock them again, although not as
        effectively as before.

Jam a door/Set a trap (j) or Spike a door/Set a trap (S)
        Certain objects can be effectively used to set a trap that can
        delay, injure or even kill monsters. This command allows you to
        attempt to set a trap using any object. Some objects will only prove
        to be a distraction to monsters, however the majority should injure
        or apply spell effects against a monster. This ability is affected
        by your disarm skill - in particular you can accidentally set off
        an object while you are attempting to set a trap with that object,
        should it be significantly more powerful than your abilities.
        Many monsters can simply open closed doors, and can eventually
        get through a locked door.  You may therefore occasionally want
        to jam a door shut with iron spikes.  Each spike used on the door
        will make it harder to bash down the door, up to a certain limit.
        Smaller monsters are less able to bash down doors. You can also use
        spikes to make pit traps more dangerous.
        This command may take a count, requires a direction, and takes some 
        energy.

Bash a door (B) or Force a door (f)
        This command allows you to bash down jammed doors.  Your bashing
        ability increases with strength.  Bashing open a door can (briefly)
        throw you off balance.  Doors that are stuck, or which have been
        jammed closed with spikes can only be opened by bashing, and all
        closed doors can be bashed open if desired.  Bashing a door open
        may permanently break it so that it can never be closed.  This
        command may take a count, is affected by the "always_repeat" option,
        requires a direction, and takes some energy.
        Trees and other wooden features may be bashed to destroy them.

Disarm a trap or chest (D)
        You can attempt to disarm traps on the floor or on chests.  If you
        fail, there is a chance that you will blunder and set it off.  You
        can only disarm a trap after you have found it (usually with the
        Search command).  This command may take a count, is affected by the
        "always_repeat" option, requires a direction, and takes some energy.
        Doors may also be trapped, and trapped doors may be disarmed as
        a consequence.

Alter (+)
        This special command allows the use of a single keypress to select
        any of the "obvious" commands above (attack, tunnel, bash, open,
        disarm, close), and, by using macros or keymaps, to combine this
        keypress with directions.  In general, this allows the use of the
        "control" key plus the appropriate "direction" key (including the
        roguelike direction keys in roguelike mode) as a kind of generic
        "alter the terrain feature of an adjacent grid" command.  This
        command may take a count, is affected by the "always_repeat" option,
        requires a direction, and takes some energy.

--- Spell Commands ---

Browse a book (b) or Peruse a book (P)
        Only mages, rogues, and rangers can read magic books, and only
        priests and paladins can read prayer books.  Warriors cannot read
        any books.  When this command is used, all of the spells or prayers
        contained in the selected book are displayed, along with information
        such as their level, the amount of mana required to cast them, and
        whether or not you know the spell or prayer.
        Browsing now allows you to select a spell in a spell books for
        a comprehensive list of what effects that spell has.
        All spell-using classes may read song books, but classes other
        that bards and shamans will only be able to use some of the spells
        from the book. 

Gain new spells or prayers (G)
        Use this command to actually learn new spells or prayers.  When you
        are able to learn new spells or prayers, the word "Study" will appear
        on the status line at the bottom of the screen.  If you have a book
        in your possession, containing spells or prayers which you may learn,
        then you may choose to study that book.  If you are a mage, rogue, or
        ranger, you may actually choose which spell to study.  If you are a
        priest or paladin, your gods will choose a prayer for you.  There are
        nine books of each type, five of which are normally found only in the
        dungeon. This command takes some energy.

        You are not limited in Unangband to a maximum of 64 spells:
        instead your intelligence and books ailable to you dictate what
        magic you can learn. Note that priests and paladins may also study
        at altars in the dungeon to learn spells: these are less useful in
        that the spells may only cast while standing on the altar until you
        discover the appropriate book they occur in. The various specialist
        classes may also learn spells earlier.

Cast a spell (m)
        To cast a spell, you must have previously learned the spell and
        must have in your inventory a book from which the spell can be
        read.  Each spell has a chance of failure which starts out fairly
        large but decreases as you gain levels.  If you don't have enough
        mana to cast a spell, you will be prompted for confirmation.  If
        you decide to go ahead, the chance of failure is greatly increased,
        and you may lose a point of constitution.  Since you must read the
        spell from a book, you cannot be blind or confused while casting,
        and there must be some light present.  This command takes 
		  some energy. You must possess the book or be standing
        on the appropriate altar to cast a spell. Note that all classes use this
        command to cast spells. In future versions (p) will be used to prepare
        items to make new magical items.
        
        You can also use this command to cancel singing a song, if you are a
        bard.

--- Object Manipulation Commands ---

Eat some food (E)
        You must eat regularly to prevent starvation.  As you grow hungry,
        a message will appear at the bottom of the screen saying "Hungry".
        If you go hungry long enough, you will become weak, then start
        fainting, and eventually, you may will die of starvation.  You
        may use this command to eat food in your inventory.  Note that
        you can sometimes find food in the dungeon, but it is not always
        wise to eat strange food.  This command takes some energy.
        You may also eat the fruit from various trees and bushes in the
        dungeon.

Fuel your lantern/torch (F)
        If you are using a torch and have more torches in your pack,
        or you are using a lantern and have flasks of oil in your pack,
        then your can "refuel" them with this command.  Torches and Lanterns
        are limited in their maximal fuel.  In general, two flasks will fully
        fuel a lantern and two torches will fully fuel a torch.  This command
        takes some energy.
        In addition to filling lanterns and torches, which you may now do to
        lanterns and torches in your pack or on the floor, you may also fill
        empty bottles and flasks from pools and fountains in the dungeon, in
        order to acquire potions and flasks of oil and other items.

Quaff a potion (q)
        Use this command to drink a potion.  Potions affect the player in
        various ways, but the effects are not always immediately obvious. 
        This command takes some energy.
        You may quaff from pools of water and from fountains when you are 
        standing in them. Some of these may even have beneficial effects.

Read a scroll (r)
        Use this command to read a scroll.  Scroll spells usually have an
        area effect, except for a few cases where they act on other objects.
        Reading a scroll causes the parchment to disintegrate as the scroll
        takes effect.  Most scrolls which prompt for more information can be
        aborted (by pressing escape), which will stop reading the scroll
        before it disintegrates.  This command takes some energy.

Apply rune (y) or Engrave a rune (^G)
        Apply a rune from a runestone to an object. Applying runes to
        objects can have various effects, depending on what type of object it
	is.  Usually applying 1 or 2 of the same kind of rune to a weapon or
        armour will have a minor beneficial effect, and 3, 4 or 5 runes will
        transform the object into a powerful ego-item.  Note that some
        combinations of runes and objects may result in a cursed object, as
        opposed to a useful one.
        Applying a rune to a potion, scroll, wand, staff, rod, ring or
        amulet will transform it into another kind of object. Some
        transformations significantly upgrade the power of the object,
        particularly if you apply multiple runes to an object, or if you
        apply a rune to an object that can be made from the kind of rune you
        are applying.
        Experiment with runes on objects that you don't particularly need
        until you master the useful combinations.  If an object cannot have a
        rune applied to it, it is likely to be an magic item, artifact or
        powerful ego item of some kind.

Assemble a part (Y) or operate a part (^O)
        Assemble parts of an object together. Some objects you may find in the
        dungeon come in components that need to be assembled together. You need
        to assemble the pieces in a logical order, however you can partially
        build an object to save on inventory space, before you find all the
        required parts for the whole object.
        It may be necessary to assemble objects you'd rather not otherwise do,
        in order that you complete a quest.

Inscribe an object ({) 
        This command inscribes a string on an object.  The inscription is
        displayed inside curly braces after the object description.  The
        inscription is limited to the particular object (or pile) and is
        not automatically transferred to all similar objects.  Under certain
        circumstances, Angband will display "fake" inscriptions on certain
        objects ("cursed", "broken", "tried", "empty", "NN% off") when
        appropriate.  These "fake" inscriptions remain all the time, even if 
        the player chooses to add a "real" inscription on top of it later.

        In addition, Angband will occasionally place a "real" inscription on
        an object for you, normally as the result of your character getting
        a "feeling" about the item.  All characters will get "feelings" about
        weapons and armor after carrying them for a while.  Warriors (who 
        understand weapons and armor best) get the most detailed feelings, 
        and get them faster than other classes. Rogues (used to handling all 
        sorts of stolen goods) are also very good, as are paladins (basically
        warriors who are religious.) Rangers are not so well-versed in 
        melee weapons, being normally people of the outdoors and the 
        wilderness who prefer archery and camouflage to heavy metal armor and
        weaponry, while priests and mages simply are not experienced enough 
        in matters concerning melee to be able to tell much about an item - 
        though a priest will realise the extent of his knowledge fairly 
        quickly, as they are often called upon to fight for their faith and 
        have learned a little from these experiences and divine insight.
        Mages, frankly, haven't a clue. But then, they don't need it when 
        they can learn the spell of Identify very early on in the game.

        An item labeled as "{empty}" was found to be out of charges, and an
        item labeled as "{tried}" is a "flavored" item which the character
        has used, but whose effects are unknown.  Certain inscriptions have
        a meaning to the game, see "@#", "@x#", "!*", and "!x", in the section
        on inventory object selection.

        After inscribing an identified object, with the easy_autos option
        selected, all such object kinds will be automatically inscribed with
        the same inscription. If this is an ego item, all such ego items will
        be inscribed instead.

        The following additional inscriptions are available: =s, which stacks
        2 items with this inscription together as if all the force_stack options
        were available, =d which means you will never pick up an object with
        this inscription, =k which means you will destroy an object with this
        inscription when you walk over it and =i which means you will never 
        remember an object with this inscription, so that it will not be
        displayed on the overhead map.

        In addition, the {good} pseudo-id is extended to include {very good}
        and {great} inscriptions to indicate that an item is increasingly 
        powerful but not an ego item, and the {excellent} pseudo-id is extended
        to include {superb} pseudo-id which indicates the item in question is an
        ego item with a hidden power (Typically the more powerful ego objects).

        You can inscribe an item with =g5 to mean pick up this item unless I
        already have 5 of it in my inventory. You can also inscribe it with =d5
        to mean don't pick up this item if I have 5 or more of it in my
        inventory.  You can also inscribe it with =k5 to mean destroy it on
        pick-up if I have 5 or more of it in my inventory. You also inscribe it
        with =i5 to mean ignore it if I have 5 or more of it in my inventory.

        You can also inscribe an item with <5 to mean confirm if I have less
        than 5 of this in my inventory and >5 to mean confirm if I have more
        than 5 of this in my inventory.

Uninscribe an object (})
        This command removes the inscription on an object.  This command will
        have no effect on "fake" inscriptions added by the game itself.
        After uninscribing an identified object, with the easy_autos option
        selected, the automatic inscription will be removed for all objects of 
        this kind. If this is an ego item, the ego item's auto inscription will
        be cleared instead.

--- Magical Object Commands ---

Activate an wielded/worn object (A)
        You have heard rumors of special weapons and armor deep in the
        Pits, items that can let you breathe fire like a dragon or light
        rooms with just a thought.  Should you ever be lucky enough to
        find such an item, this command will let you activate its special
        ability.  Special abilities can only be used if you are wearing or
        wielding the item.  This command takes some energy.
        The rings and dragon armours that may be activated may stack with 1
        instance of a charging item of the same type, if these items would
        normally stack if charged, or as many instances as required if
        stacking is forced on the objects.

Aim a wand (a) or Zap a wand (z)
        Wands must be aimed in a direction to be used.  Wands are magical
        devices, and therefore there is a chance you will not be able to
        figure out how to use them if you aren't good with magical
        devices.  They will fire a shot that affects the first object or
        creature encountered or fire a beam that affects anything in a
        given direction, depending on the wand.  An obstruction such as a
        door or wall will generally stop the effects from traveling any
        farther.  This command requires a direction and can use a target.
        This command takes some energy.
        With pval stacking, wands do not unstack until they are empty, and
        will only sometimes unstack if they are used while not identified.

Use a staff (u) or Zap a staff (Z)
        This command will use a staff.  A staff is normally very similar
        to a scroll, in that they normally either have an area effect or
        affect a specific object.  Staves are magical devices, and there
        is a chance you will not be able to figure out how to use them.
        This command takes some energy.
        With pval stacking, staffs do not unstack until they are empty, and
        will only sometimes unstack if they are used while not identified.
        Staffs may also be wielded as weapons, for the most part having 1d6
        damage, and possibly some special powers.
 
Zap a rod (z) or Activate a rod (a)
        Rods are extremely powerful magical items, which cannot be burnt
        or shattered, and which can have either staff-like or wand-like
        effects, but unlike staves and wands, they don't have charges.
        Instead, they draw on the ambient magical energy to recharge
        themselves, and therefore can only be activated once every few
        turns.  The recharging time varies depending on the type of rod.
        This command may require a direction (depending on the type of
        rod, and whether you are aware of its type) and can use a target.
        This command takes some energy.
        Rods may stack with 1 instance of a charging rod of the same type
        if timeout stacking is enabled, or will always stack with uncharged
        rods if force timeout stacking is enabled.


--- Throwing and Missile Weapons ---

Fire or throw an item (f) or Fire or throw an item (t)
        You may throw any object carried by your character.  Depending on
        the weight, it may travel across the room or drop down beside you.
        Only one object from a pile will be thrown at a time.  Note that
        throwing an object will often cause it to break, so be careful!
        If you throw something at a creature, your chances of hitting it
        are determined by your pluses to hit, your ability at throwing,
        and the object's pluses to hit.  Once the creature is it, the
        object may or may not do any damage to it.  You've heard rumors
        that some objects found in the dungeon can do huge amounts of
        damage when thrown, but you're not sure which objects those
        are....  Note that flasks of oil will do a fairly large chunk
        of damage to a monster on impact, supposedly representing fire
        damage, but it works against fire elementals too - not that it's 
        exactly worth it by that stage of dungeon exploration.  If you are
        wielding a missile launcher compatible with the object you are
        throwing, then you automatically use the launcher to fire the
        missile with much higher range, accuracy, and damage, then you
        would get by just throwing the missile.  Fire or Throw requires
        a direction.  Targeting mode (see the next command) can be invoked
        with "*" at the "Direction?" prompt.  This command takes some energy.
        Items that can be fired apply the appropriate damage type to the
        monster they are thrown against, such as burning arrows, and to
        the ground underneath.  Slings may now be used to lob potions
        for a much greater distance, as well as improving the damage and
        damage of throwing weapons, such as javelins or spears.

        Important note: In order to take advantage of throwing weapons such
        as daggers, batons, darts, javelins and spears, and the additional
        benefits of throwing styles, you need to 'fire' rather than throw
        these weapons. This restricts the list of items you may choose to
        those balanced for throwing, but gives you the additional damage
        multiplier and shots of your style, and counts the to-hit and damage
        bonus of the weapon twice.  You cannot be wielding a bow, sling or
        crossbow in order to do this.

Targeting Mode (*)
        This will allow you to aim your spells and such at a specific
        monster or grid, so that you can point directly towards that
        monster or grid (even if this is not a "compass" direction) when
        you are asked for a direction.  You can set a target using this
        command, or you can set a new target at the "Direction?" prompt when
        appropriate.  At the targeting prompt, you have many options.  First
        of all, targetting mode starts targetting nearby monsters which can
        be reached by "projectable" spells and thrown objects.  In this mode,
        you can press "t" (or "5" or ".") to select the current monster,
        space to advance to the next monster, "-" to back up to the previous
        monster, direction keys to advance to a monster more or less in that
        direction, "r" to "recall" the current monster, "q" to exit targetting
        mode, and "p" (or "o") to stop targetting monsters and enter the mode
        for targetting a location on the floor or in a wall.  Note that if
        there are no nearby monsters, you will automatically enter this mode.
        Note that hitting "o" is just like "p", except that the location
        cursor starts on the last examined monster instead of on the player.
        In this mode, you use the "direction" keys to move around, and the
        "q" key to quit, and the "t" (or "5" or ".") key to target the cursor
        location.  Note that targetting a location is slightly "dangerous",
        as the target is maintained even if you are far away.  To cancel an
        old target, simply hit "*" and then ESCAPE (or "q").  Note that when
        you cast a spell or throw an object at the target location, the path
        chosen is the "optimal" path towards that location, which may or may
        not be the path you want.  Sometimes, by clever choice of a location
        on the floor for your target, you may be able to convince a thrown
        object or cast spell to squeeze through a hole or corridor that is
        blocking direct access to a different grid.  Launching a ball spell
        or breath weapon at a location in the middle of a group of monsters
        can often improve the effects of that attack, since ball attacks are
        not stopped by interposed monsters if the ball is launched at a target.

--- Looking Commands ---

Full screen map (M)
        This command will show a map of the entire dungeon, reduced by a
        factor of nine, on the screen.  Only the major dungeon features
        will be visible because of the scale, so even some important
        objects may not show up on the map.  This is particularly useful
        in locating where the stairs are relative to your current
        position, or for identifying unexplored areas of the dungeon.

Locate player on map (L) or Where is the player (W)
        This command lets you scroll your map around, looking at all sectors
        of the current dungeon level, until you press escape, at which point
        the map will be re-centered on the player if necessary.  To scroll
        the map around, simply press any of the "direction" keys.  The top
        line will display the sector location, and the offset from your
        current sector.

Look around (l) or Examine things (x)
        This command is used to look around at nearby monsters (to determine
        their type and health) and objects (to determine their type).  It is
        also used to find out what objects (if any) are under monsters, and
        if a monster is currently inside a wall, and what is under the player.
        When you are looking at something, you may hit space for more details,
        or to advance to the next interesting monster or object, or minus ("-")
        to go back to the previous monster or object, or a direction key to
        advance to the nearest interesting monster or object (if any) in that
        general direction, or "r" to recall information about the current
        monster race, or "q" or escape to stop looking around.  You always
        start out looking at "yourself".
        You can look at yourself to see the room description of the room you are
        in, and any object, monster or feature in a room other than the one you
        are in.

Observe an item (I)
        This command lets you observe a previously *identified* item.
        This will tell you things about the special powers of the object.
        Currently, it only makes sense for artifacts and ego-items.

--- Message Commands ---

Repeat level feeling (^F)
        Repeats the feeling about the dungeon level that you got when you
        first entered the level.

View previous messages (^P)
        This command shows you all the recent messages.  You can scroll
        through them, or exit with ESCAPE.

Take notes (:)
        This command allows you to take notes, which will then appear in
        your message list (prefixed with "Note:").

--- Game Status Commands ---

Character Description (C)
        Brings up a full description of your character, including your
        skill levels, your current and potential stats, and various other
        information.  From this screen, you can change your name or use
        the file character description command to save your character
        status to a file.  That command saves additional information,
        including your background, your inventory, and the contents of
        your house.

Check knowledge (~)
        This command allows you to ask about the knowledge possessed by
        your character.  Currently, this includes being able to list all
        known "artifacts", "uniques", "ego items" and "objects", and the
        contents of your home. Normally, once an artifact is "generated",
        and "lost", it can never again be found, and will become "known" to
        the player.  An artifact can never be "lost" until it is "known" 
	to the player.  Any "known" artifacts not in the possession 
	of the player will never again be "generated".  
	The "uniques" are special "unique" monsters which can
        only be killed once per game.  Certain "objects" come in "flavors",
        and you must determine the effect of each "flavor" once for each
        such type of object, and this command will allow you to display all
        "known" flavors. Other objects and ego items are displayed as you 
        encounter them in the game.
        Auto-inscriptions are inscriptions that are automatically created
        when an item is created or identified. Currently you can set
        auto-descriptions for all items of a particular type (tval), kind
        or ego item type. In a future version, this will be expanded to
        match the auto-squelch functions of other variants.

Display current quests (^Q) or display current quests ($)
        This command displays all the quests you character currently knows
        about, including their rewards and penalties for failure. If you
        can start a quest by performing a set of actions, that information
        will be displayed here.

Display time of day (^T) or display time of day (')
        This command displays the current date and how many hours until either
        sunrise, midday, sunset or midnight.  This is useful for locating
        guardian monsters which only appear on the surface at night.

Display Visible Monsters ([)
        This command displays a list of all the monsters that the player is
        aware of in a list.

Interact with the system (!)
        Allow the user to interact with the underlying visual system.
        This command is currently unused.
 
--- Saving and Exiting Commands ---

Save and Quit (Ctrl-X)
        To save your game so that you can return to it later, use this
        command.  Save files will also be generated (hopefully) if the
        game crashes due to a system error.  After you die, you can use
        your savefile to play again with the same options and such.

Save (Ctrl-S)
        This command saves the game but doesn't exit Angband.  Use this
        frequently if you are paranoid about having your computer crash
        (or your power go out) while you are playing.

Quit (commit suicide) (Q)
        Kills your character and exits Angband.  You will be prompted to
        make sure you really want to do this, and then asked to verify
        that choice.  Note that dead characters are dead forever.

--- User pref file commands ---

Interact with options (=)
        Allow you to interact with options.  Note that using the "cheat"
        options may mark your savefile as unsuitable for the high score
        list.  You may change normal options using the "X" and "Y" user
        pref commands.  The "window" options allow you to specify what
        should be drawn in any of the special sub-windows (not available
        on all platforms). See the help file "options.txt" for more info.

Interact with macros (@)
        Allow you to interact with macros.  You may load or save macros
        from user pref files, create macros of various types, or define
        keymaps.  You must define a "current action", shown at the bottom
        of the screen, before you attempt to use any of the "create macro"
        commands, which use that "current action" as their action.  This
        is a horrible interface, and will be fixed eventually.

Interact with visuals (%)
        Allow you to interact with visuals.  You may load or save visuals
        from user pref files, or modify the attr/char mappings for the
        monsters, objects, and terrain features.  You must use the "redraw"
        command (^R) to redraw the map after changing attr/char mappings.

Interact with colors (&)
        Allow the user to interact with colors.  This command only
        works on some systems.
 
--- Help ---

Help (?)
        Brings up the Angband on-line help system.  Note that the help
        files are just text files in a particular format, and that other
        help files may be available on the Net.  In particular, there are
        a variety of spoiler files which do not come with the standard
        distribution.  Check the place you got Angband from or ask on the
        newsgroup rec.games.roguelike.angband about them. 

Identify Symbol (/)
        Use this command to find out what a character stands for.  For
        instance, by pressing "/.", you can find out that the "." symbol
        stands for a floor spot.  When used with a symbol that represents
        creatures, the this command will tell you only what class of
        creature the symbol stands for, not give you specific information
        about a creature you can see.  To get that, use the Look command.

        There are three special symbols you can use with the Identify
        Symbol command to access specific parts of your monster memory.
        Typing Ctrl-A when asked for a symbol will recall details about
        all monsters, typing Ctrl-U will recall details about all unique
        monsters, and typing Ctrl-N will recall details about all
        non-unique monsters.

        If the character stands for a creature, you are asked if you want
        to recall details.  If you answer yes, information about the
        creatures you have encountered with that symbol is shown in the
        Recall window if available, or on the screen if not.  You can also
        answer "k" to see the list sorted by number of kills, or "p" to
        see the list sorted by dungeon level the monster is normally found
        on.  Pressing ESCAPE at any point will exit this command.

Game Version (V)
        This command will tell you what version of Angband you are using.
        For more information, see the "version.txt" help file.


--- Extra Commands ---

Toggle Choice Window (^E) 
        Toggles the display in any sub-windows (if available) which are
        displaying your inventory or equipment.

Redraw Screen (^R)
        This command adapts to various changes in global options, and
        redraws all of the windows.  It is normally only necessary in
        abnormal situations, such as after changing the visual attr/char
        mappings, or enabling "graphics" mode.

Center the screen on player (^L)
        This comman centers the display on the player.

Load screen dump (left-paren)
        This command loads a "snap-shot" of the current screen from the file
        "dump.txt", and displays it on the screen.

Save screen dump (right-paren)
        This command dumps a "snap-shot" of the current screen to the file
        "dump.txt", including encoded color information.

Save html screen dump (]) or (^])
        This command dumps a "snap-shot" of the current screen to the file
        "dump.htm", including encoded color information. Unlike the above
        screen shot commands, this screen dump is in html format. Currently
        Unangband does not have the ability to reload html screen shots
        dumped in this manner.

        Using ctrl-right-bracket to invoke this command will dump the
        html file but without any visual feedback as to the success or
        failure of this command. This method of invoking this command may
        be used any time Unangband is expecting keyboard input, however it
        will use the currently set visual prefs, rather than the underlying
        'ASCII' visuals.
