=== Debug Command Descriptions ===

--- Item Creation ---

Create an object (c)
	Provides a menu to let you create any object, and drops it on the
	floor.

Create an artifact (C)
	Creates a artifact and drops it on the ground.  Use the command-count
	to specify which artifact from artifact.txt to create.

Create a good object (g)
	Creates a good object and places it nearby. If you provide a command-
	count, creates that many good items.

Create a very good object (v)
	Creates a very good ("excellent") object and places it nearby. If you
	provide a command-count, creates that many very good items.

Play with an object (o)
	Lets you modify an object by randomly rerolling it as a normal, good,
	or excellent object, or lets you modify it directly, tweaking the pval
	and combat values.

--- Detection / Information ---

Detect all (d)
	Casts the detection spell to reveal all traps, doors, stairs, treasure,
	features and monsters nearby.

Wizard detect (D)
	Detect all traps, doors, stairs, treasure, features and monsters and
	lights the whole dungeon.

Show ecologies (E)
	Shows a list of the ecological information for this level.

Identify fully (f)
	Identifies all attributes of an object.

Identify (i)
	Identifies an object.

Magic Mapping (m)
	Maps the nearby dungeon.

Self-knowledge (k)
	Grants you self-knowledge, as the potion of the same name.

Learn about objects (l)
	Makes you "aware" of all items.

Query the dungeon (q)
	Press 'c' to highlight information about the dungeon:
	  'g'/'0' - lit floor
	  'r'/'1' - part of a room
	  'd'/'2' - lit by daylight
	  'l'/'3' - lit by a glowing feature
	  't'/'4' - lit by the player or a monster
	  'x'/'5' - location is climbable
	  'f'/'6' - blocks line of fire
	  's'/'7' - blocks line of sight
	Press 'p' to highlight information about what the player knows:
	  'm'/'0' - memorized feature
	  'd'/'1' - detected as safe
	  'p'/'2' - player has seen the region here
	  'l'/'3' - lit by the player
	  's'/'4' - has seen flag
	  't'/'5' - has temp flag
	  'v'/'6' - has view flag
	  'f'/'7' - has fire flag

Seed dungeon generation (S)
	Allows you to specify a seed value for the next level generated.

Unhide monsters (u)
	Reveals all monsters whose distance to the character is at most 255.
	If given a command-count, uses that distance instead of 255.

Wizard-light the level (w)
	Lights the entire level, as the Potion of Enlightenment.

Create spoilers (")
	Lets you create a spoiler file for objects or monsters.

--- Teleportation ---

Teleport level (j)
	Allows you to teleport to any dungeon level instantly, as given in
	dungeon.txt.

Phase Door (p)
	Teleports you up to 10 spaces away.

Teleport (t)
	Teleports you up to 100 spaces away.

Teleport to target (b)
	Teleports you to the last space you targeted (or close to it, if the
	space is occupied).

--- Character Improvement ---

Cure all maladies (a)
	Removes all curses, restores all stats, xp, hp, and sp, cures
	all bad effects, and satisfies your hunger.

Edit character (e)
	Lets you specify your base stats, xp, and gold.

Increase experience (x)
	Doubles your current experience and adds 1. If given a command-count,
	increases your experience by that much instead.

Rerate hitpoints (h)
	Rerates your hitpoints.

--- Monsters ---

Summon monster (n)
	Summons a specific monster, using the command-count to specify a
	monster number from monster.txt

Summon random monster (s)
	Summons a random monster next to you. If given a command-count,
	summons that many monsters instead.

Zap monsters (z)
	Deletes all monsters in sight. If given a command-count, deletes all
	monsters whose distance to the character is at most the command-count
	instead.
