            -- Welcome to Unangband --

You will be asked a number of questions to help you customise
your in-game experience.  Please answer them to the best of
your ability.

If you choose Beginner you will be able to start the game
straight away with the minimum number of additinal choices.
Choose this if you are playing this game for the first time
and have no experience of 'roguelike' games before.  You'll
find this will give you the best experience and not unduly
restrict the choices you have to make in-game at this stage.

As a Beginner, you'll start the game as a Maia Istari.  The
Maia are a powerful race who come from the West.  They are 
good at all skills and have high stats.  The Istari are fine 
warriors who can also use the priestly and magical arts as
well as magical devices and bows.  Making this choice means
you'll be able to use all items that you find in the game
equally well and allows you to progress far and learn about
all aspects of Unangband.

If you choose Played roguelikes before, or Played Angband
before, you'll be given the choice of which class or race
you play. It is recommended that you start the game as a Maia
Istari until you have a feel for the particular abilities you
wish to use in the game.  The abilities you have as this
class and race are at the top-end of the range available so
you'll find that the game is somewhat easier than you may be
used to.

With these choices, as you find additional equipment and kill
particular monsters, you'll unlock additional choices during
character creation, provided you reload the save-file that you
have been using.  This is intended to allow you to learn about
these choices in-game first, so that you have a better idea
whether they are a viable choice.  Note that these additional
choices are currently poorly documented, as the game is a
work in progress, and not every decision made about the game
has been finalised.

If you choose Played Unangband before, you'll be given every
choice available.  Please note that many of the choices are
not currently documented, so it is recommended that you read
the source code to figure out the differences.

To change the level of difficulty once selected, you need to
delete the Startup.prf file in the user directory of your
Unangband installation. The next time you start the game,
you'll be presented these choices again.
