=== Getting Information in Game ===

By far the best source of information about the world around you can be
found within the game itself.

At any time, you can bring up a list of what monsters aware of by pressing
the '[' key. Pressing this key again allows you to cycle through various ways
to display this information, sorting by distance or depth (difficulty) and
either hiding or showing objects you are aware of in addition to monsters.
This menu will hide if it would overlap your character's location on screen.

You should frequently use the 'l'ook command, or e'x'amine in the roguelike
keyset to see what is around you.   This will allow you to look around at
grids and examine them in more detail.  Press ESC to exit the look mode,
use the direction keys to cycle between interesting grids, and the space bar
to cycle between items in a single grid. You can press 'p' while looking to
change the mode to allow you to look at any grid, as opposed to just
interesting ones. The 'r' key (for recall) will allow you to recollect the
information you have learned so far about whatever you are now looking at.

You can also recall things that you can't currently see in one of two ways.
Firstly, you can recall based on the letter that is used to represent it by
default, by pressing the '/' key followed by the letter you wish to recall.
You will then be able to cycle through a list in the main display. Pressing
'r' at any point will provide more details about the currently shown item.

By far the most useful repository of information is the knowledge menus
which you can access by pressing '~'. This is a veritable encyclopaedia of
everything you have encountered so far incorporating what you and your
ancestors have learned. The knowledge menus should be straight forward to
navigate using your movement keys. Again, pressing the 'r' key will recall
more information about the currently selected item.

Under the options menu you have the ability to redirect many of the useful
subscreens out to separate windows by using the 'W' command from the options
menu accessed through the '=' key. This gives you the ability to rearrange
the display of useful information to ensure you are up to date with what is
around you in the game.

If you do want to spoil yourself, there are various options that will mark
you as a cheater, as well as the ability to generate spoiler files should
you want to refer to information that could be learned by time, trial and
error. And for the ultimate up to date information, you can refer to the
source code of the game, although that will require an understanding of C
code and the idiom used by the various developers who have contributed to
Unangband and its predecessors.
