=== Playing the Game ===

    Most of your interaction with Unangband will take the form of "commands".
Every Unangband command consists of an "underlying command" plus a variety of
optional or required arguments, such as a repeat count, a direction, or the
index of an inventory object.  Commands are normally specified by typing a
series of keypresses, from which the underlying command is extracted, along
with any encoded arguments.  You may choose how the standard "keyboard keys"
are mapped to the "underlying commands" by choosing one of the two standard
"keysets", the "original" keyset or the "roguelike" keyset.

    The original keyset is very similar to the "underlying" command set,
with a few additions (such as the ability to use the numeric "directions" to
"walk" or the "5" key to "stay still").  The roguelike keyset provides similar
additions, and also allows the use of the h/j/k/l/y/u/b/n keys to "walk" (or,
in combination with the shift or control keys, to run or alter), which thus
requires a variety of key mappings to allow access to the underlying commands
used for walking/running/altering.  In particular, the "roguelike" keyset
includes many more "capital" and "control" keys, as shown below.

    Note that any keys that are not required for access to the underlying
command set may be used by the user to extend the "keyset" which is being
used, by defining new "keymaps".  To avoid the use of any "keymaps", press
backslash ("\") plus the "underlying command" key.  This is normally only
used in "macro" definitions.  You may enter "control-keys" as a caret ("^")
plus the key (so "^" + "p" yields "^P").

    Some commands allow an optional "repeat count", which allows you to tell
the game that you wish to do the command multiple times, unless you press a
key or are otherwise disturbed.  To enter a "repeat count", type '0', followed
by the numerical count, followed by the command.  You must type "space" before
entering certain commands.  Skipping the numerical count yields a count of 99.
An option allows certain commands (open, disarm, alter, etc) to auto-repeat.

    Some commands will prompt for extra information, such as a direction, an
inventory or equipment item, a spell, a textual inscription, the symbol of a
monster race, a sub-command, a verification, an amount of time, a quantity,
a file name, or various other things.  Normally you can hit return to choose
the "default" response, or escape to cancel the command entirely.

    Some commands will prompt for a spell or an inventory item.  Pressing
space (or '*') will give you a list of choices.  Pressing "-" (minus) selects
the item on the floor.  Pressing a lowercase letter selects the given item.
Pressing a capital letter selects the given item after verification.  Pressing
a numeric digit '#' selects the first item (if any) whose inscription contains
"@#" or "@x#", where "x" is the current "underlying command".  You may only
specify items which are "legal" for the command.  Whenever an item inscription
contains "!*" or "!x" (with "x" as above) you must verify its selection.

    Some commands will prompt for a direction.  You may enter a "compass"
direction using any of the "direction keys" shown below.  Sometimes, you may
specify that you wish to use the current "target", by pressing "t" or "5", or
that you wish to select a new target, by pressing "*" (see "Target" below).

        Original Keyset Directions       Roguelike Keyset Directions

                 7  8  9                           y  k  u
                 4     6                           h     l
                 1  2  3                           b  j  n


    Each of the standard keysets provides some short-cuts over the "underlying
commands".  For example, both keysets allow you to "walk" by simply pressing
an "original" direction key (or a "roguelike" direction key if you are using
the roguelike keyset), instead of using the "walk" command plus a direction.
The roguelike keyset allows you to "run" or "alter" by simply holding the
shift or control modifier key down while pressing a "roguelike" direction key,
instead of using the "run" or "alter" command plus a direction.  Both keysets
allow the use of the "5" key to "stand still", which is most convenient when
using the original keyset.

    Note that on many systems, it is possible to define "macros" to various
keys, or key combinations, so that it is often possible to make macros which,
for example, allow the use of the shift and/or control modifier keys, plus a
numeric keypad key, to specify the "run" or "alter" command, with the given
direction, regardless of any keymap definitions, by using the fact that you
can always, for example, use "\" + "." + "6", to specify "run east".


=== Special Keys ===
 
        Certain special keys may be intercepted by the operating system or
the host machine, causing unexpected results.  In general, these special keys
are control keys, and often, you can disable their special effects.

        If you are playing on a UNIX or similar system, then Ctrl-C will
interrupt Unangband.  The second and third interrupt will induce a warning
bell, and the fourth will induce both a warning bell and a special message,
since the fifth will quit the game, after killing your character.  Also,
Ctrl-Z will suspend the game, and return you to the original command shell,
until you resume the game with the "fg" command.  There is now a compilation
option to force the game to prevent the "double ctrl-z escape death trick".
The Ctrl-\ and Ctrl-D and Ctrl-S keys should not be intercepted.
 
        It is often possible to specify "control-keys" without actually
pressing the control key, by typing a caret ("^") followed by the key.
This is useful for specifying control-key commands which might be caught
by the operating system as explained above.

        Pressing backslash ("\") before a command will bypass all keymaps,
and the next keypress will be interpreted as an "underlying command" key,
unless it is a caret ("^"), in which case the keypress after that will be
turned into a control-key and interpreted as a command in the underlying
Unangband keyset.  The backslash key is useful for creating macro actions
which are not affected by any keymap definitions that may be in force, for
example, the sequence "\" + "." + "6" will always mean "run east", even if
the "." key has been mapped to a different underlying command.

        The "0" and "^" and "\" keys all have special meaning when entered
at the command prompt, and there is no "useful" way to specify any of them
as an "underlying command", which is okay, since they would have no effect.

        For many input requests or queries, the special character ESCAPE
will abort the command.  The "[y/n]" prompts may be answered with "y" or
"n", or escape.  The "-more-" message prompts may be cleared (after reading
the displayed message) by pressing ESCAPE, SPACE, RETURN, LINEFEED, or by
any keypress, if the "quick_messages" option is turned on.
 

=== Command Counts ===
 
        Some commands can be executed a fixed number of times by preceding
them with a count.  Counted commands will execute until the count expires,
until you type any character, or until something significant happens, such
as being attacked.  Thus, a counted command doesn't work to attack another
creature.  While the command is being repeated, the number of times left
to be repeated will flash by on the line at the bottom of the screen.

        To give a count to a command, type 0, the repeat count, and then
the command.  If you want to give a movement command and you are using the
original command set (where the movement commands are digits), press space
after the count and you will be prompted for the command.
 
        Counted commands are very useful for time consuming commands, as
they automatically terminate on success, or if you are attacked.  You may
also terminate any counted command (or resting or running), by typing any
character.  This character is ignored, but it is safest to use a SPACE or
ESCAPE which are always ignored as commands in case you type the command
just after the count expires.

        You can tell Unangband to automatically use a repeat count of 99
with commands you normally want to repeat (open, disarm, tunnel, bash,
alter, etc) by setting the "always_repeat" option.

=== Selection of Objects ===
 
        Many commands will also prompt for a particular object to be used.
For example, the command to read a scroll will ask you which of the
scrolls that you are carrying that you wish to read.  In such cases, the
selection is made by typing a letter of the alphabet.  The prompt will
indicate the possible letters, and will also allow you to type the key
"*", which causes all of the available options to be described.  The list
of choices will also be shown in the Choice window, if you are using a
windows environment and windows are turned on.  Often you will be able to
press "/" to select an object from your equipment instead of your
inventory.  Pressing space once will have the same effect as "*", and
the second time will cancel the command and run the "i" or "e" command.
 
        The particular object may be selected by an upper case or a lower
case letter.  If lower case is used, the selection takes place
immediately.  If upper case is used, then the particular option is
described, and you are given the option of confirming or retracting that
choice.  Upper case selection is thus safer, but requires an extra key
stroke.  Also see the "!*" and "!x" inscriptions, below.

        For many commands, you can also use "-" to select an object on the
floor where you are standing.  This lets you read scrolls or quaff
potions, for example, off the dungeon floor without picking them up.

        If you enter a number between 0 and 9, the first item engraved
with "@#" where "#" is the number you entered will be selected.  For example,
if you have a shovel engraved with "@0" and you type "w" (for wield) and
then 0, you will wield the shovel.  This is very useful for macros (see
below), since you can use this to select an object regardless of its
location in your pack.  For example, Unangband automatically defines a macro
for the key "X" to do "w0".  If you then engrave both your digging
instrument and your primary weapon with @0, pressing X will wield
whichever one is not being currently wielded (letting you quickly switch
between them).  Multiple numbers can be engraved on the same object; for
example, if a sword is engraved with @1@0, then either "w1" or "w0" will
wield it.  Normally, you inscribe "@1@0" on your primary weapon, and
"@2@0" on your digger or secondary weapon.  Note that an inscription
containing "@x#" will act like "@#" but only when the current "Angband
command" is "x".  Thus you can put "@z4" on a rod and "@u4" on a staff,
and then use both "z4" and "u4" as desired.

        Note that any object containing "!x" in its inscription, where
"x" is the current "angband command" (or containing "!*" ever) will induce
"verification" whenever that object is "selected".  Thus, inscribing, say,
"!f!k!d" on an object will greatly reduce the odds of you "losing" it by
accident, and inscribing "!*" on an object will allow you to be very paranoid
about the object.  Note that "selling" and "dropping" both use the "d" command.


