==== Attacking and Shooting ====

Monster armour class now reduces the damage inflicted by your weapons in melee,
at the same rate that your armor class reduces the effectiveness of some 
of their attacks. However, monster hit points are also scaled down internally 
by the same factor so that you will notice no difference in the effectiveness 
of your melee attacks. Currently, monster recall displays the unscaled 
hit points, but this will be changed in a future version.

However, this is not the case with spells, missiles and thrown weapons. 
As a result, these attacks are up to 4 times as effective against more heavily
armoured monsters, than in vanilla.

To compensate, the multiplier from missile weapons is applied to the base 
missile damage, before critical hits, or missile shooter or ammunition 
damage bonus is added. This now makes the missile damage computation 
equivelent to melee damage. Missiles should be roughly as effective as before,
if not more so in some instances (Remembering total damage is up to 4 times 
as effective, so only against the most heavily armoured creatures, 
only bows/crossbows with a multiplier of x5 or higher have the potential 
to be less effective than vanilla).

This also has the effect of rendering breath weapons less damaging 
than vanilla. To compensate in a future version of Unangband, monsters 
will use a version of the smarter Oangband 4GAI in order to choose 
the most effective attack against you.

Monsters which both breathe and have spells are more likely to use either 
of these against you, as the chance of using innate attacks and spell attacks
are determined seperately: a monster with both and a spell frequency of 1 in 2
will now use either type of attack 75% of the time.

Currently monsters do not use any additional information about player 
resistances to determine which attack to use, even when smart monster AI 
is switched on.

Monster attacks now use the same routine as spells for damaging the player. 
This allows monsters to have a variety of attacks that may correspond 
to breath weapon types. In some instances for code simplicity, monster melee 
attacks may not correspond with old vanilla attacks, but the difference 
should not be too noticeable.

Critical hit computation now takes account the weapon to hit bonus in order 
to determine the chance of a critical and the total critical effectiveness. 
Actual criticals have not been modified from vanilla, but may be so in 
a future verison of Unangband.

Weapon styles will play an important for players who have chosen a particular
weapon style to specialise in. Most weapon styles are self-explainatory, 
and are listed on the Character display screen with a 1 or 2 letter 
abbreviation.

One-handed style indicates a weapon of less than 20 lbs wielded without 
a shield. Two-handed style indicates a weapon of 10 lbs or more wielded 
with a shield. If you can qualify for both one-handed and two-handed style, 
you will pick the most advantageous in your circumstances.

Characters may backstab with a sword of less than 10 lbs against a fleeing 
or sleeping monster only.

Two weapons may be wielded in the following instances: when the two weapons 
are the same specific type and of less than 15 lbs , or when the secondary 
weapon is a throwing weapon and the primary weapon is less than 20 lbs 
in weight. The second weapon will be treated as twice as heavy, 
and the sum of weapon weights combined for the purpose of determining 
multiple blows, and the secondary weapon will be used to attack 
on every even numbered strike. Dual-wield combat provides only the advantages 
that the second weapon provides in the instance where no further style 
benefits are given. 

In order to qualify for the unarmed style, the player must not be wielding 
a weapon, but may be carrying anything other than a weapon in their hands 
(In which case they will use their feet to kick). Note that carrying 
anything other than a weapon will not inhibit a skilled unarmed specialist 
from the advantages of their style.

Staffs may now be wielded as hafted weapons, inflicting 1d6 damage. 
Whips now only do 1d4 damage. Darts are introduced as a 1d4 damage 
polearm equivelent to a dagger.

Spears are upgraded in name, so that a javelin is the equivelent of the old
spear, a spear is the equivelent of the old trident, and a two-handed spear 
is the equivelent of the old Lance, but 10 lbs lighter. Lances and Tridents 
do more damage and Tridents are heavier and occur deeper in the dungeon.  
The related artifact weapons are also upgraded, but have roughly the equivelent
damage spread as previous.

Shields have percentage chance of stopping arrows when wielded, 
equal to the total armour class bonus the shield provides. In a future 
version of Unangband, shields will be upgraded in armour protection 
to roughly that provided in Oangband.

