[This file is outdated (due to some intrigues of Morgoth servants, for sure).]

=== General Info ===

16-7-2001 UnAngband 0.4.0 "Mystery Release" aka "War against the Angels"
aka "Angry Young Man"

This is the README file for Unnamed Angband 0.4.0 for 14 July, 2001.

For a more recent list of changes, read changes.txt.

Unnamed Angband adds over 100 class/style combinations to Angband,
130 new spells, 60 new spell books and spell related objects, over
500 new monsters, 196 features, 230 room descriptions and slightly
modifies combat and monster spell casting.

There is a context sensitive help feature you are invited to
contribute to.

Classes added include bards, archers, thieves and druids. Bards use
a new type of spell book (Song books), and continue to sing their
spells after initially casting them, letting them simultaneously
perform other actions. Archers are the missile weapon equivelent
of warriors. Thieves are the only class to improve in stealth from
level to level. Druids can cast both mage and priest spells. The
c_info.txt file can be used to create new classes and reconfigure
existing ones. There are a number of internally hard-coded limits
on classes that probably prevent more than 26 total class types.
All class specific abilities are now defined in info files.

More significantly, all classes are now able to specialise in various
spell books, fighting styles or objects, depending on which class
they are a member of. The class gains additional benefits of various
types when using their specialisation. This is detailled in the
w_info.txt file which can also be modified and expanded. There is
a maximum of 32 different styles, for each class, some of which
are not useful for a particular class. Various hard coded
limits probably prevent more than 26 possible styles plus spellbook
substyles per class.

There is a (hack) pretty name function that keeps sub-class names
interesting for the player.

There are 130 new spells of various types, including spells that 
create temporary objects, modify existing objects, modify terrain
and so forth. A number of the new spells are duplicates of existing
spells for other classes. A character can learn up to 64 total spells.

In order to support the new spells, there are 60 new spell books
and spell book related objects. Spellbooks are used by bards for their
spells, but may also be used by priest and mage-type spell casters
although there are many illegible spells in each book for those
casters. Instruments may be used by the bard to improve those spells
he sings for long durations. Temporary spell objects are wielded by
the spell caster as enchanted objects.

Over 500 monsters have been added, with the intention of ensuring
variety in the dungeon, and to make feature-ful levels interesting.

Features added to the dungeon include new traps, water, ice, lava,
mud and chasms. These are detailled in f_info.txt and
defined using additional fields and flags documented in the same
file. Monsters should be able to traverse various terrain types
depending on additional flags in r_info.txt. Lakes and rivers
will be generated through some dungeon levels.

Room descriptions have been added. These are displayed when a 
player lites up or enters a room. Room descriptions can also add
extra monsters, objects and features. See d_info.txt for details.

Monsters can now cast spells out of line of sight of the player,
including summon spells. You will be warned in some circumstances
when this is happening. Confused monsters will attack and breath
against other monsters.

Combat has been modified slightly so that melee attacks against
monsters are reduced by the monster AC, much in the same way as
melee attacks against the player are reduced. To compensate,
monster hit points are scaled down by the same factor (Internally),
depending on their armour class. It has the added benefit of making
spell attacks against heavily armoured monsters more powerful.

If a monster is killed and the player has blows remaining, the player
only uses the appropriate fraction of the full energy use for the
round.

Missile weapons now use the same algorithm as melee weapons. Note
that missile weapons do not have their damage reduced by AC,
so they should remain (approximately) as effective.

You can contact the author (Andrew Doull) at andrewdoull@hotmail.com,
or check his home page at http://promisedpoems.editthispage.com/.
