=== Welcome to Unangband ===

	I want to welcome you with open arms to Unangband, a variant of Angband which
	I have spent some not inconsiderable time and effort developing over more
	than 10 years.

	Unangband attempts to create a place of mystery, that you will grow to know
	and understand, while still leaving you surprised and intrigued at every
	unexpected turn.  You will fail in your quest to kill Morgoth many times, but
	I hope every failure is at least interesting and different from the last,
	and provides a sense of enlightenment about the underlying mechanics of the
	game. To quote another game developer 'Failure is fun!' and it is this sense
	of slow, but fruitful accomplishment that I hope this game provides you.

	And should you finish in your quest, and hold Melkor's iron crown in your
	grip, you should realise that this game is infinitely replayable, but also
	that I have never come close to the victory you now feel.

	Good luck! And good hunting.
                                                     - Andrew Doull
                                                     
So reads the game's introduction as written by its original developer. I shall
briefly echo his sentiment here, despite having a miniscule fraction of the
responsibility that Andrew Doull had for this game.

To those who want a more thematic game in the world of Arda than the original
Angband provides, Unangband allows travel around the various dungeons of
Middle-Earth. Delve into the dark halls of Khazad-Dum. Recover the Arkenstone
of Thrain from the hoard of Smaug in the bowels of Erebor. Storm the dark
tower of Dol Goldur, or the other, Barad-dur. Just remember that actions
have consequences, and where you venture and whom you anger can change your
fortune for weal or woe! And to those who prefer the traditional linear
dungeon of Angband, simply disable the 'adult_campaign' option and you
are back to a standard Angband dungeon. Many of Unangband's striking features
are part of the campaign, though, so I recommend leaving that option enabled.

So without further ado, I bid you be on your way, for the enemies arrayed
against you are many. But remember: allies may also be found unlooked-for;
not everything that moves is hostile!

													 - the Gold Dragon	

PS: From here, you should find useful game play tips as you travel through
the towns, wilderness and dungeons of this world. Also peruse the help files
accessible at almost any time with the ? key. Feel free to report any bugs
or unexpected behaviour on the issue tracker at https://github.com/DGoldDragon28/Unangband/issues
